greetings and welcome to J.W. Broadcasting.
This month we'll learn what it means to be faithful
and how to make it our way of life.
How can we remain faithful while enduring severe tests?
Maria Fernanda, Matias and Esteban each faced intense trials.
They'll share how they found peace and comfort.
Do you sometimes hesitate to offer a Bible study?
This episode of Iron Sharpen's Iron offers practical suggestions that will boost your confidence.
And our new music video encourages young people to stay faithful and on the right path in life.
This is J.W. Broadcasting.
Old Faithful is the name of a geyser in Yellowstone National Park in the United States.
The geyser was given this name because of the relative regularity of its eruptions.
Today, it erupts thousands of liters or gallons of boiling water about every 90 minutes on average.
After Old Faithful erupts, the timing of its next eruption can be predicted about 90% of the time within a 10 minute variation.
And it's not even the most regular geyser in the park.
Isn't that amazing?
It shouldn't surprise us that the word faithful is applied to inanimate things, since we see faithfulness and dependability in creation.
For example, Psalm 8937 describes the moon as a faithful witness in the skies because of its reliability.
Its appearance in the sky follows a fixed pattern, and it faithfully completes its orbit around the earth every 27.3 days.
While we admire faithfulness and creation, we especially appreciate people who make faithfulness their way of life.
Such individuals are reliable, dependable, and trustworthy.
Let's read about this quality of faithfulness at 1 Corinthians 4-2.
In this regard, what is expected of stewards is that they be found faithful.
The term stored can mean house manager.
His work could include caring for his master's business, property, and other servants.
That's a lot of responsibility.
But think of this.
A stored might have many fine qualities and abilities, yet none of them would matter if he was irresponsible, disloyal, and unfaithful to his master.
Faithfulness is essential to be an effective and successful stored.
As true Christians, we must prove ourselves faithful and trustworthy.
How does Jehovah feel about faithfulness?
In the same way as King David did, who wrote at Psalm 1016,
I will look to the faithful ones of the earth so that they may dwell with me.
Using a similar expression, the prophet Jeremiah wrote the words found at Jeremiah 5-3.
O Jehovah, do your eyes not look for faithfulness?
And Psalm 373 encourages us to reside in the earth and act with faithfulness.
So the theme of this month's broadcast is, make faithfulness your way of life.
We'll examine two examples of faithfulness, and then we'll consider some practical ways that we can prove ourselves faithful.
We can our discussion by talking about the example of a geyser.
A geyser might be a fitting symbol of the faithfulness of humans, because geysers continually erupt, but they do so unpredictably.
So a geyser would be a poor representation of the unchanging faithfulness of our faithful creator, as Jehovah is described at 1 Peter 4-19.
The ever-present sun and moon are more appropriate symbols of the unchangeableness of his faithfulness.
In his words to the nation of Israel, Moses stated as found at Deuteronomy 32-4,
the rock perfected his activity for all his ways or justice, a god of faithfulness who is never unjust.
Did Jehovah prove faithful to that nation? Of course he did.
When Moses spoke those words to the Israelites, they may have remembered the time when Jehovah had faithfully brought their forefathers out of Egypt, and rescued them at the Red Sea.
He had faithfully preserved millions of people alive during the Israelites' 40-year journey in the wilderness, and he had led them to the border of the Promised Land.
Moses' successor Joshua also could testify to Jehovah's faithfulness.
As a child growing up in Egypt, Joshua must have come to know of Jehovah's promise to give the Israelites a land of their own.
When the time came to enter that land, Joshua was an eyewitness of how Jehovah fought in behalf of his people.
Joshua saw the walls of Jericho fall down flat. He saw the sun stand still until the amurites could be routed.
In time one nation after another was defeated, because the faithful god was fighting for Israel.
Once they defeated their enemies, Joshua could say to the nation what is recorded at Joshua 23-14.
You well know with all your heart and with all your soul that not one word out of all the good promises that Jehovah your god has spoken to you has failed.
They have all come true for you, not one word of them has failed, not one word.
Joshua had seen that Jehovah faithfully kept his promises.
Well, you can probably think of many other examples of Jehovah's faithfulness, such as the fulfillment of Messianic prophecies.
The fulfillment of the promise to feed God's people spiritually in our day by means of the faithful and discrete slave, and so on.
Jehovah sets the perfect example for us in showing faithfulness.
The thought of making faithfulness our way of life can also be illustrated in the example of the three Hebrew companions of Daniel.
When they were young, Hanna Naya, Michelle, and Azaraya said an excellent example of faithfulness in what some people may view as a small thing.
Do you remember how they were pressured to eat unclean food?
Apparently, their faithful parents must have instructed them to adhere strictly to the dietary restrictions found in the Mosaic law.
Jehovah considered these so important that after listing such restrictions, he stated the words recorded at Leviticus 1145.
You must be holy, because I am holy.
The King of Babylon assigned the three Hebrew use and other young men a daily ration from his delicacies, among which were foods forbidden by the law.
The three Hebrews could have reasoned that the dietary restrictions of the Mosaic law were not so important, at least not when compared to the Ten Commandments.
But no, those faithful use were concerned with living up to all features of God's law.
They determined not to pollute themselves with such food and requested to eat vegetables.
The matter of which tasted better was of no concern to them in this important decision.
Daniel asked that they be permitted to try out this diet for ten days.
The result?
At the end of the ten days, Jehovah blessed those young men for their faithfulness.
They looked better and healthier than any of the other use.
Was the choice of food a small thing?
Not to Jehovah.
It was of serious concern to him, and the young Hebrews had his view of the matter.
Their faithfulness in what may have seemed a small thing, prepared them for a bigger trial in the future.
Hananiah, Michelle, and Aziraya had already established a pattern of making faithfulness their way of life,
when King Nebuchadnezzar ordered them to bow before an image of gold on the plains of Dora.
In faithfulness to Jehovah, they refused.
And they made that decision, despite knowing that it would result in their being thrown into a fiery furnace.
As we read their words to the King, as recorded at Daniel 3, 17, and 18,
see if you can sense their faithfulness.
If it must be, our God whom we serve is able to rescue us from the burning fiery furnace, O King, and to rescue us from your hand.
But even if he does not, let it be known to you, O King, that we will not serve your gods,
or worship the image of gold that you have set up.
That courageous stand resulted in their being thrown into the furnace.
But as we know, Jehovah rescued them.
What an outstanding witness they provided not only to the King and his court,
but also to all those who through the centuries have read about that account in the book of Daniel.
The three Hebrews looked at Jehovah as their sovereign, and they proved themselves faithful in both large and small matters.
Well, how can we imitate Jehovah and the three Hebrews so that we too can make faithfulness our way of life?
Jesus' statement, recorded at Luke 1610, can help.
He said,
The person faithful in what is least is faithful also in much.
Those words uttered almost 2,000 years ago are still as true as ever.
Now, it may be that you'll never be asked to take a stand that demonstrates what some might view as outstanding faithfulness,
as was shown by the three Hebrews when they didn't bow down to the image.
But your constancy in doing what is right, your reliability and dependability in small things,
gives evidence of your deep appreciation for what it means to be faithful.
Psalm 3123 assures us that Jehovah protects the faithful,
and this is true even when we're faithful and seemingly small matters.
There are many areas of our lives in which we need to display faithfulness to Jehovah.
For example, having a regular share in the ministry each month and reporting our participation.
Faithfulness to our marriagemate is very important to Jehovah.
How about showing our faithfulness by staying neutral with regard to the political and social conflicts of the world?
Do we make faithfulness our way of life when it comes to our personal conduct each day?
During a personal study session or family worship, why not consider how you can continue to be faithful in these areas?
And what about you young ones?
We're so proud of you when you prove your faithfulness to Jehovah.
We know that many of you face tests of your faith that involve the pressure to engage in immorality and in other forms of bad behavior.
It's one thing to know what to do or what choice you should make,
but quite another to have the courage to do what is right when you're under pressure or temptation.
The three Hebrews could have concluded that they could get away with eating the food God's law prohibited since they were far away from their parents and friends.
They could also have reason that it was the King's order, so they had no choice but to do what they were told.
Besides, other Jews may have readily accepted the food arrangements and viewed it as a privilege.
But the Hebrew Jews knew that, as mentioned in Proverbs 153, the eyes of Jehovah are everywhere.
Those Jews were determined to remain faithful.
Young ones, if you learn to deal successfully with trials that some may view as small things, then you'll be able to face bigger tests of your faith.
Never forget that the benefits of faithfulness far outweigh any temporary relief that comes from compromising.
Let's consider one more area that involves faithfulness, our dress and grooming.
How glad we were to learn in the 2024 governing body update number two of the adjustments to our standard of dress at theocratic events and in the ministry.
We commend you brothers and sisters for wanting to dress and be groomed in a dignified way on those occasions.
But how can we show our faithfulness and our selection of clothing during our leisure time, when on vacation, or when at social gatherings with our fellow Christians?
First Timothy 2.9 and 10 admonishes our Christian sisters to adorn themselves in appropriate dress, with modesty and soundness of mind, in the way that is proper for women professing devotion to God.
Of course, the principle of modesty applies to Christian brothers too.
Also, second Corinthians 6, 3, and 4 states that in no way are we giving any cause for stumbling so that no fault may be found with our ministry.
But in every way we recommend ourselves as God's ministers, in every way includes our choice of dressing grooming.
An article entitled, Are You Faithful in All Things in the July 15, 2005 issue of the Watchtower states this.
Our dress needs to be practical and presentable. This serves as a witness to others who observe us.
In fact, we should always be appropriately attired.
To some, faithfulness in the choice of clothing may seem to be a small matter. But in God's eyes, it is important.
We should remember this when it comes to our choice of dressing grooming. Well, what will you remember from this consideration?
Most of us admire faithfulness in creation. However, we especially appreciate people who have made faithfulness their way of life.
We have outstanding examples of faithfulness recorded in the Bible that we can imitate, such as Jehovah, the Three Hebrews, and many others.
The principle found at Luke 16-10 can help us to be faithful not only in large matters, but also in what some may regard as small matters.
Brothers and sisters, we encourage you to continue to prove your faithfulness to Jehovah.
As noted at Proverbs 28-20, a faithful man will receive many blessings. Of course, our main reason for being faithful is not because of what we get out of it, but because of our love for Jehovah.
And we can be sure that Jehovah will continue to bless us richly if we make faithfulness our way of life.
Jesus displayed unmatched faithfulness through all that he suffered.
In our first segment, notice how his words and example helped Maria Fernanda, Matias, and Esteban during their darkest moments.
We were spending the afternoon in the pool with my family. The next day, I woke up and I was having trouble catching my breath, so we went to the doctor.
A blood test revealed that I had a bacterial infection in my leg called Staphylococcus. I ended up in the hospital for 55 days.
I had a colonoscopy, and a few days later, they told me I had colon cancer.
They ran some more tests and discovered it had also spread to my liver.
He was a very humble person, caring. Yes.
He loved Jehovah very much. He was a good companion and a great friend. We were married for almost 25 years.
Honestly, I don't know why, but he decided to take his own life. I never thought that he would choose to do something like that.
I think a word that's even more terrifying than cancer is metastasis.
It was like being caught up in a whirlwind and then plummeting to the ground. My life as I knew it had now completely changed.
In total, there were 10 operations. The first four were the most difficult because there was a possibility that they would have to amputate my leg.
Every morning, you wake up with an intense anxiety, like a weight on your chest, and you can't breathe.
At first, I thought that Jehovah was just letting all this happen and that he wasn't doing anything.
If Jesus himself did not expect Jehovah to shield him from trials or to get him out of them, then I had no right to think, why is this happening to me?
Actually, the correct thinking is the opposite. Why shouldn't it also be me?
One day, the doctors came in with some papers saying that the judge had given them permission to operate on me and give me a blood transfusion that very day.
Because I was still a minor at the time, I found that my opinion and my decisions were being ignored.
So at that moment, I realized that all of this wasn't against me, but against Jehovah. It became clear to me that everything was in his hands.
I see Jehovah's hands through my brothers and sisters who are always looking out for me.
We decided to speak openly about it with others, but especially with our close friends. We wanted to tell them even before they asked.
One scripture that others often shared with me says that Jehovah is a protector of widows. That was a constant reminder that Jehovah was going to take care of me, and he did.
It was three months of chemotherapy, and then the operation. They told us the operation could last ten hours.
One thing I remember thinking was, well, when I open my eyes, I will either see the ceiling of the operating room or I'll see the new world.
When our family faced economic hardships, my mom made fruit jams to sell. So I said, well, I guess I need to do the same.
A sister who had a business offered to sell them for me. This helped me so much because I'm not naturally gifted at doing sales.
While reviewing the legal order, it turned out that it contained an error. My last name is Canal, and they added a nest to it.
So they weren't able to use the document that ordered the transfusion that day.
At this time, I began to recover, and I started feeling reassured by the fact that I had not been judging Jehovah by asking where he was.
Asking that question was a sign that I needed his help.
Whenever anything worries me, I tell myself, wait, Jehovah has always cared for you. So he's not going to stop now. I have full confidence that Jehovah will take care of me.
The physical health is now the best it can be. In my spiritual condition with Jehovah, my friendship with him has been greatly strengthened.
We've definitely experienced more good things than bad things. It's not that we will want to go through it all again. Absolutely not.
But the reality is that in hindsight, with everything I learned about Jehovah, I don't know that I would have learned these things, had I not gone through a situation like this.
If you're facing a hardship or trial, remember you're not alone. Never hesitate to ask for help.
You too can count on Jehovah's loving support to endure and remain faithful. Jehovah's love moves us to help others come to know him.
Offering a Bible study is one of the best ways to do this.
Sometimes, though, we may feel unsure or uncomfortable. In this episode of Iron Sharpen's Iron, we'll learn how to offer a Bible study with confidence.
Hello, I'm Byeongchuliam. Welcome to Iron Sharpen's Iron. Have you ever had this experience?
You share the truth with someone and you can see that it touches their heart. It's the best feeling, isn't it?
And it makes you want to take the initiative to offer them a Bible study. After all, we love God and people.
But, at times, we may hesitate to offer a study. We might worry about something pushy or being rejected.
So, what can we do to effectively offer a Bible study?
Hi, you're out to exercise again today. You're really diligent.
I've got to do at least this much to stay healthy. But hey, look at this news. I said so a few months ago, didn't I?
Why is the world such a mess?
True, but don't you think the world will get better someday?
What do you think? Can the world's problems be solved by people's efforts?
If anything, it'll get worse. What can people do?
Well, if people are powerless, do you think there's another way?
Another way? Hmm. Doesn't seem likely.
Our brother did an excellent job.
He showed personal interest, was a good listener, and asked appropriate questions.
But, can you guess what he did next?
He offered a brief, silent prayer to Jehovah for help.
When offering a Bible study, prayer is the first step.
Even if the fear of rejection makes you hesitate?
If you pray for courage as Philippians 2.13 tells us to do,
Jehovah will give you both the desire and the power to act, and will bless your efforts.
So, even if you feel hesitant to speak up, don't give up.
Pause, pray, and turn your thoughts into actions.
Actually, the Bible tells us about the solution.
Here, let me show you.
Under God's Kingdom, peaceful abound.
God's Kingdom. Sounds like a possible solution.
But now, I've got a lot of questions.
Right. I had a lot of questions, too.
But I found the answers by studying the Bible.
It's the best way. Really?
Studying the Bible? Yes.
Some people might think a Bible study involves attending classes with many others or taking exams.
How can we avoid this misunderstanding?
This is the second step.
Demonstrate how a Bible study is conducted.
Showing them this video from the Teaching Toolbox in JW Library,
not only answers frequently asked questions about Bible studies,
but is also one of the best ways to help them want to study the Bible.
You also study the Bible like this? Yes.
I really enjoyed studying the Bible.
Video said the future becomes brighter if you study the Bible.
So, how does it become brighter? Like this.
Enjoy life forever?
You can watch the video together,
and then show them the back cover of the enjoy life forever brochure.
If they respond positively,
you can build their anticipation by moving on to the third step.
This involves finding out what they are interested in.
To do this, show them page 15 of the brochure
and ask them to choose a topic that interests them.
This one. How to find real peace?
Yes, peace is really important.
Then how about we explore this topic together for our first Bible study?
Sounds good. What time works for you?
The brother did an excellent job of starting a Bible study.
So, let us review.
To offer a Bible study, there are three steps.
The first is prayer.
You might feel hesitant about offering a Bible study,
but Jehovah can give you both the desire and the power to do so.
The second is to demonstrate how a Bible study is conducted.
We have effective tools that help us to do this.
For example, you can use what happens at a Bible study video
and the enjoy life forever brochure.
The third is to find out the other person's interests.
Use page 15 of the brochure to find out which topics interest them.
But remember, the more important than any method or technique
is showing genuine love for God and people, just as Jesus did.
This will no doubt help you to achieve your goal of making disciples.
After what we've explored together today,
I feel motivated to go out and start a Bible study.
I hope you also feel the same way.
What practical suggestions?
Let's look for ways to apply them in our daily interactions with people.
When we stay alert in our conversations,
we'll find opportunities to offer Bible studies.
More than ever, people urgently need to learn about Jehovah and his purpose for mankind.
The knowledge they gain can truly transform their lives
as we'll see in the story of Moses Mapoto.
One night, the police came into our home.
They kicked open the doors and they broke the windows.
They told us that they were taking the house that it was no longer ours.
After that incident, I became an angry person.
I was angry and I told myself that I would do anything to find justice and freedom.
A partite caused divisions among people.
For example, there was education meant for white people and education meant for black people.
The education for black people was of a very low standard.
When the government made a budget, most of that money was going to white people.
Even in the classrooms, the black students classrooms were overcrowded
compared to the white students classrooms.
While I was growing up, I was determined to become a lawyer
so that I would be able to fight a partite legally.
After that cruel incident and that harsh treatment,
my view changed immediately.
And I wanted an immediate solution that would help us find peace,
find freedom, and find justice.
I went on to join a political organization.
I agreed to cross the border where I was being trained in the military.
The political organization made me a military commander of soldiers
that were fighting for freedom.
My responsibility as a commander was to establish cells
where we could store our weapons for war
and to train others who came to join that organization.
We were training them in guerrilla warfare,
showing them how to use guns or different explosives
that we stored in those cells.
I was a very cruel person who did not respect anyone
who was not afraid of anything.
I was not happy because I expected that as one organization
we would be united because we had the same purpose.
In my experience, there was hatred, there was prejudice,
there was quarreling.
My wife was already one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
We agreed that she should find someone
who would teach me about the Bible.
That sister came and started telling me
about the good news of God's Kingdom.
But things turned sour when she said that this Kingdom of God
will crush all these other kingdoms,
including my political organization.
I was furious as I was talking to her,
but I saw that she was just smiling, not shouting,
not even retaliating.
I was surprised.
It touched my heart.
They invited me to the Kingdom Hall.
What really got my attention is that everywhere I looked,
everyone in the hall was participating.
Little children were raising their hands,
giving their answers freely.
You could see they were well prepared
and stayed on the topic.
Each and every one of them found scriptures quickly.
I was a university student,
but I was unable to find the scriptures.
That made me think, hey, I want to be the same as them.
I noticed that the kind of education that they were receiving
in Jehovah's Organization was of a high standard,
compared to what we receive under Partite,
which was of a very low standard.
From my experience,
it is clear that trusting in people is chasing the wind,
but putting trust in Jehovah God brings people happiness.
Since I was young,
I just wanted to find freedom,
find peace, and become a happy person.
But I could not find it until I came into the Kingdom Hall.
That is where I found real freedom.
I found real justice.
I had real happiness,
and I was shown what real love is.
My life has changed tremendously.
I have a close relationship with Jehovah.
That relationship caused me to become a loving person,
a person who is empathetic,
someone who strives hard to be humble,
someone who lives with people in peace.
I close myself completely with the new personality.
Moses yearned for two things,
justice and unity,
and learned that God's Kingdom offers the true solution.
God's Word also contains principles that foster peace
in our personal relationships, starting at home.
In the following dramatization,
note how regular Bible reading promotes peace within marriage.
In a marriage,
not applying Bible principles can lead to a lack of peace,
as time passes.
The differences in opinion and personality that arise
can undermine the peace you once had.
How can that peace so long for be regained?
Isaiah chapter 26 and verse 3 says,
You will safeguard those who fully lean on you.
You will give them continuous peace
because it is in you that they trust.
Only Jehovah can give continuous peace
to those who fully lean on him.
Abraham and Sarah, for example,
had that peace because even during big life changes
and difficult situations,
they faithfully followed Jehovah's direction.
We can demonstrate our trust in Jehovah.
By searching out His advice and His Word,
the Bible, burning Bible reading into a habit,
can seem daunting,
but it's worth the effort.
Take advantage of every opportunity.
See where you can make adjustments in your routine.
The advice found in the Bible can lead to peace in your marriage.
For example, Matthew chapter 7 and verse 12 says,
All things therefore that you want men to do to you,
you also must do to them.
But after reading, don't forget the most important steps.
Apply what you learn.
When a husband puts his wife's interest ahead of his own,
she feels loved and valued and vice versa.
Another Bible principle found at Matthew chapter 5 and verse 5 says,
Happy are the mild tempered.
By controlling our temper,
we create an environment that is relaxed and peaceful.
And while all are encouraged to read the Bible as individuals,
if circumstances allow, consider doing so as a couple.
Talk about what you learned.
Take advantage of the available study tools
to learn all you can about Jehovah's marvelous qualities
without a doubt.
This will draw you closer to Jehovah
and will strengthen a threefold cord in your marriage.
And even when life takes a turn and things get hard,
you will still be able to feel the continuous peace
that only Jehovah, the originator of marriage, can provide.
If it's convenient to talk privately with your spouse,
why not pause this video and discuss these three questions?
The dramatization was both realistic and encouraging.
When husbands and wives read the Bible regularly,
together and on their own and apply what they learn,
they bring continuous peace into the home.
The Bible not only provides timeless principles,
but also examples of real people whose lives we can learn from.
One of these is Job, who teaches us timeless lessons about integrity.
That's the focus of this morning worship presented by Brother Robert Cerenco.
Did you know that in the Bible,
Jehovah accretts just two of his worshipers as having integrity?
David and Job.
Regarding David at 1 Kings 9-4,
Jehovah told Solomon,
Walk before me as your father David walked with integrity of heart.
And twice when speaking of Satan, Jehovah said of Job,
there is no one like him on the earth.
He is an upright man of integrity.
Of course, the Bible is filled with other examples of men and women
who had similar reputations.
We can think of Abraham, Daniel and his three companions,
and all the ones that Paul listed in Hebrews chapter 11,
just a few, and of course the finest example of all is Jesus Christ.
Clearly, Jehovah takes note of, values and loves people with integrity,
which is a quality that every faithful servant of God needs.
But exactly what is that quality?
Well, integrity is moral soundness,
an unswerving devotion to righteousness.
Having integrity means having strong ethical and moral principles
and following those principles at all times.
We could say that such people do the right thing even when that is not easy
and no one is watching.
In fact, integrity is most evident when a person's devotion is under test
and he is pressured to abandon the right course.
Now, how does a person develop integrity?
Well, it all starts with defining one's core values.
That is, the values that no matter what the consequences,
we are not going to compromise them.
And in this, Job is an excellent example.
What were his core values?
Well, we don't have to wonder. Turn to Job chapter 1 verse 1.
It says, there was a man in the land of us whose name was Job.
He was an upright man of integrity.
He feared God and shunned what was bad.
Those were Job's core values.
He had a reverent, deep respect for Jehovah
and a wholesome dread of disobeying him.
And that was right in line with what Solomon wrote hundreds of years later
in Ecclesiastes chapter 12 verse 13.
If you'd like to look at that, Ecclesiastes 12, 13.
The conclusion of the matter, everything having been heard is,
fear the true God and keep His commandments,
for this is the whole obligation of man.
Or as a modern paraphrase puts it,
fear God, duty tells you.
In the text comments for today, the Watchtower states,
for servants of Jehovah, the key to integrity is love for God.
And it adds that along with that must be our loyal devotion to Him
as our Heavenly Father.
Humans show integrity when they are so completely devoted to God
that they continue to do His will when facing hardship.
Why even in His worst moment, Job refused to turn against God
and that is why He said, until I die, I will not renounce my integrity.
Each of us has the responsibility and the privilege just like Job
to demonstrate that we serve in obey Jehovah because we love Him.
Interestingly, in Job chapter 31,
Job lists about a dozen real life examples
that if they had been true of Him,
would have exposed a lack of integrity on his part.
Let's look at just a few of these and in doing so,
it can help us to see what we can do to keep our integrity.
Starting with verse 9 of Job 31,
he said, if my heart has been enticed by a woman.
In verse 11, he said, that would be shameful conduct
and error deserving judgment by the judges.
We know Job kept himself clean from immorality
because in verse 1 of that same chapter,
he said he had made a covenant with his eyes
not to show improper attention to another woman.
So he not only avoided committing adultery,
but he had not even taken the first step toward that sin
by looking lustfully at other women.
So people of integrity uphold Jehovah's standard of morality
and the sanctity of marriage.
Another example is in verse 16,
he said, if I refuse to give the poor what they desired.
And in verse 17, he included the need to share his food
with the orphans.
Well, we know Job was generous to the poor in needy
because at Job 2912, he said he would rescue the poor,
the fatherless child, and anyone who had no helper.
So people of integrity value others and help those
who are in need and they look after orphans
and widows.
Another example, verse 24, he said,
if I put my confidence in gold,
Job was wealthy at the start,
but he was not greedily materialistic.
And when he lost all his wealth,
he accepted the fact that as he said,
naked he came out of his mother's womb
and naked he would return.
So people of integrity did not put their trust
in material things.
They put the kingdom first in their life.
One more example, verse 33,
he said, have I ever tried to cover
over my transgressions?
In Job 1323, Job asked for his sins
and transgressions to be revealed.
And in the end, he accepted reproof
for his being too quick to declare himself righteous.
And after Elihu and Jehovah both chasing Job,
he repented in dust and ashes.
So people of integrity are quick
to own up to their own mistakes
and accept correction.
Surely Job was a model of integrity.
Did you know that he requested
that a written record be made
of his suffering and endurance?
He did, if you turn to Job chapter 19,
Job 19, starting with verse 23,
he said, if only my words were written down,
if only they could be inscribed in a book,
or that they were carved forever in the rock
with an iron stylus and lead.
How thankful we are that Jehovah agreed
to make a permanent record of Job's integrity
keeping course and that he put it in the Bible
and did not have it cherished,
chiseled on some rock
in the middle of Arabia where Job lived.
Can you sum up the story of Job in one sentence?
Well, one Bible commentary does quite well by stating,
the beauty of the book of Job is
of a living, breathing soul,
encompassed by sorrows,
surrounded by misunderstanding,
but unconquered, humbled,
and finally, satisfied in God.
Through Job's life, we learn
that no matter what trials we may encounter,
having a close relationship with Jehovah
and staying true to our core values,
will enable us to maintain our integrity
and that when we are tested,
God will support us just as He did Job.
Psalm 84 11 says,
Jehovah will not hold back anything good
from those walking in integrity.
When we show our complete,
wholehearted devotion to God by obeying Him
and doing what is right in His eyes
in our everyday lives,
even when facing hardships,
we will surely make Jehovah happy
and frustrate His enemy Satan
just as Job did so long ago.
Like Job, you young ones
have many opportunities to show your devotion
to God through the choices you make.
Our new music video,
The Road to Life,
will strengthen your conviction
to stay close to Jehovah.
It's hard to find your way.
Decisions every day,
who to be, what to love,
where to put your trust.
It's not easy to find your place,
but I know how I feel,
that Jehovah is free.
If I fall off to life,
once me to choose,
Jehovah sees that too,
to keep on love too.
We've enjoyed a faith strengthening program.
We learned how to find comfort
despite severe tests of faith.
How husbands and wives gain continuous peace
by faithfully reading God's Word.
How everyday conversations may lead to Bible studies.
And how studying the Bible can be life-changing,
giving people hope.
Before we say goodbye,
it's time for our postcard.
When you envision a paradise,
you may think of pristine beaches,
swaying palm trees,
rainforests,
and coral reefs teeming with life.
You may picture Samoa.
The Samoa and islands sparkle like gems
in the South Pacific Ocean.
The islands are divided into two parts,
Samoa and American Samoa.
Although separated by only about 65 kilometers
or about 40 miles,
they lie on either side
of the international date line,
creating a time difference of a full day.
This means that each year,
one of the first memorial talks is given in Samoa,
while one of the last is held in American Samoa.
The coconut tree is abundant here.
Samoans call it the tree of life,
because it can be used for food,
drink, medicine,
fuel, and shelter.
In 1940,
Harold Gill visited the Samoan islands to preach,
but was promptly asked to leave.
In the five days before the next boat sailed,
he distributed literature far and wide by bicycle.
One booklet found its way to Pele Foyopolo.
12 years later, in 1952,
after Pele met a brother from England at work,
he and his wife, Ilua,
became the first Samoans to be baptized.
Today, there are 12 congregations
with 606 publishers in Samoa.
Brothers at the remote translation office
on the island of Upolu
translate publications into Samoan.
Witnesses can be found preaching and appear.
Samoans main port,
but most Samoans live in rural coastal areas.
So our brothers witness in villages,
tarot plantations,
and the remote island of Manono,
reachable only by boat.
With no cars on Manono,
publishers walk the island in search of interested ones.
When our brothers get together for association,
they enjoy delicious foods,
including tarot,
breadfruit,
coconut milk,
oka,
which is raw fish in coconut cream,
and their famous hot chocolate,
Koko Samoa.
On Sundays,
families spend hours together
enjoying a feast of foods
cooked in a traditional umu.
An above ground oven made of volcanic rock.
They enjoy music,
singing,
and traditional dancing.
The Siva,
and Fatalpati,
or slap dance.
The Salihapaga congregation
is on the island of Uppolo.
Its territory includes beaches,
and the Tohswa Ocean Trench,
a volcanic swimming hole popular with tourists.
The 21 publishers,
of the Salihapaga congregation,
send their warm love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is J.W. Broadcasting.